## Algorithmic Walk II

_transcribed from a voice memo recording I took at the end of my walk when I finished following my instructions_

Ok, so this is the end of my second algorithmic walk. I'm about a mile from home, also about 12 or 13 minutes. Also spun in a circle but in a different route than my previous walk. this time my instructions were to go forward two blocks, right one. choose a random direction. then go forward 3 blocks. left forward one. and choose a random direction. that was the instruction and to repeat that twice. 

And my randomness function was. this is going to sound so stupid. pick an interesting-looking direction to turn. an interesting street to go down essentially. which is actually pretty different from what i was going to do after my first walk. my first randomness function was to pick a blog that seemed to have the least number of people on it. and i was like...that's too arbitrary so next time you should roll a four sided die. also, because it's snowing now, a blizzard, i was thinking maybe it would make sense to use the snow somehow to decide the direction to go but i can't figure out what that would be. so instead i picked interestingness to figure out what direction to go, probably because i'm bored a little bit, and i thought a good way to distinguish between people and algorithms or automatons is to think about that. what is actually interesting? what is an automaton or software, it doesn't care what's interesting, it has no ability to think, it just executes. but as humans, obviously that's a big distinction. we bring all the other things to bear that make us human. of course i won't get into all of that now. one thing is am i bored? do i find this interesting? what am i getting out of this? and yes i created this assignment and have been prepared to treat this like i'm an automaton but evidently i've introduced interestingness to my software for my algorithmic walk. which of course a computer would not be able to do, or you'd have to introduce interestingness means, you coud do that. but for me i never defined it for this walk. i just did it. i picked. and it made my walk more interesting because of it. i think. i basically chose directions i didn't know what was on that street or what was down there. or buildings or spaces i wanted to see. maybe similar to how i take a 'regular walk' in the city and i'm looking for graffiti or strange buildings or spaces to check out and examine. it's a similar thing and i intorduced that to my algorithm. 

i still think it could be useful to do a purely random function similar to how a computer would, like not based off of human subjective matters. but subjectivity breaks into this anyway. for example, i'm saying go 3 blocks forward. but some streets are really long, some streets are really short. and some might have a street that branches out on one side, like a 3 way intersection. is that the end of a block? or is a block going until it's a 4 way intersection in the city. i didn't come to a conclusion on that but i didn't have to deal with that this time because i didn't come to any. the other thing is human fallibility. at some point i forget if i had gone 2 or 3 blocks and i just made a judgement call. so there's always subjectivity when it comes to humans. 

i'm walking home now trudging through the snow. i did have a good time. i saw streets and places i didn't know super well. and this was a more fun walk than the first one because the interesting-ness helped. not all walks need to be "interesting" but I was definitely drawn that direction.
